hello welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more i actually have a
returned guest this time daryl alfonso i
interviewed daryl
i think was back in august 2020 and the
episode 143 was published on august 27th
and obviously
many things have changed in the past one
and a half years so i invited daryl back
and we're gonna have a little chat about
marketing automation and also some of
his changes in both professional and
personal lives so welcome back daryl
yeah
i am a return guest now that's so
awesome
so how are you is everything going well
as you know i moved to sunny southern
california
lucky you
i get to work from home i know i moved
away from the rainy city of seattle i
still work for the same company silver
for amazon web services still doing
marketing operations marketing
automation yeah still loving what i do
just a change of scenery i love
marketing automation and the mod tag and
i talk about that often
and i think there's one thing the
biggest takeaway from episode 143
was that you mentioned understanding
your business objectives and goals are
super critical not using feature driven
the marketing automation platform to
drive in terms of what you do but
understanding what you need to
accomplish and use that to drive your
marketing automation efforts and the
processes
are there any specific marketing
automation trends and the technologies
that
peak
your interest in the past one and a half
years during pandemic
the idea of
unifying data has continued to grow and
just continue to get popular over time
i'm particularly thinking about
how things like platforms like customer
data platforms
and other
gdp
cdp and other data unification
synchronization tools
work hand in hand with marketing
automation to create better customer
experiences
i think the best companies now
especially in the last past year
have been
thinking about
how to bring their data together from
different sources
when you do that a couple of things
happen one is you can drive incredible
customer insight i agree with that i 100
agree with that yep
because you get you get a better view
you know more of that 360 degree view
but then it also enables you to do
almost hyper personalization
to your customers going beyond what we
typically do especially in b2b which is
focusing on the demographic or
firmographic high-level behavioral
targeting really down to bringing in
things like intent and things like what
features are the customers using what
services are they using how long have
they been a customer how much are they
spending where did they come from i
think that
marrying that insight with marketing
activities is really fascinating and i
also think it's the key to really
driving customer engagement in 2022 and
beyond so you mentioned about the data
unification and also cdp
can you talk to us and to our audience
in terms of what cdp is is that kind of
like a separate platform
independently from say the typical
marketing automation tool like eloqua
marketo and a hubspot
if this is something that they have to
buy separately or this is something
that's already been incorporated
into say as a feature of the existing
marketing automation tools the goal is
to take the data from different sources
so your crm your customer database your
marketing automation platform
advertising tools that you may be using
or even maybe the customer data from the
accounting department
exactly all different data points
related to a specific customer
right so you've got these disparate
systems and you need to bring them
together
to make sure that they are
one i think accurate across the
different systems and so that you can
pass the data
efficiently and effectively for use in
other places and then the most common
places will be
you're activating or targeting your
marketing campaigns and then also you're
analyzing and you're looking at the data
to find out like what's happening and
what are customers doing and how are
your campaigns performing against them
so that's the ultimate goal now
how do you
get that data together well on one hand
you could put them into
a central data warehouse
and then have
engineers or technical resources mold
shape and structure that data in a way
and send that data back to your other
systems or put them in one central place
for analysis like a data visualization
tool for example
but not all of us have
those technical resources at our
disposal and that's where a customer
data platform will come into play so it
brings all of that for you it is
something separate you'll have to
purchase but then again the cost will be
offset by the fact that you don't have
to hire these developers for high
salaries and spend all of their time to
manage that so i think that depending on
your organization it could be a good fit
for you
if you don't have access to certain
technical resources
are there any cdp platforms that you are
aware of that is actually worth
exploring that you would like to share
with our audience
it's not necessarily name dropping per
se and i know you are not affiliated
with any one of them it's just like a
couple names to get everybody thinking
about what are some of the companies out
there are doing it there's
some slight differences with features so
i think that depending on your
organization you probably have to go
through a specific vendor analysis i
will say that i've been super impressed
by
the the content and the thought
leadership coming from companies like
segment as well as telium as these great
kind of customer data platforms actually
i heard of attilion several times yes i
think i stopped by their booth as well
to check out their adp platforms yeah we
definitely are getting into the heavy
marketing
operations part of it you know it's very
it's very behind the scenes but i think
we talked about this too in our earlier
podcast is all the cool things that you
want to do in marketing takes a lot of
work to do and it takes a lot of things
that aren't that glamorous the end
result is is worth it i 100 agree with
you in fact i just did kind of like live
streaming talking about five essential
skills that modern digital marketers
should possess
and one of them is actually understand
technology and once you understand
technology you also need to have ability
to build workflow
if you understand the workflow part of
it i'm not saying that you have to do
the back-end i'm not saying you need to
code but if you understand how data flow
or how
when you do a campaign that you need to
use multiple different digital platforms
to make things happen if you can
understand that it's going to provide a
sense of clarity
so i 100 agree with you it sounds
incredibly dull
boring and it's not kind of like a
creative or it's not even copywriting
but i think it's very essential if you
actually want to create that seamless
digital experience
i also agree with you that
it may not be so for example you know
like i was a content marketer for a long
time i was more focused on content
creation
once i create a piece of blog or create
a piece of content somebody will take
and run with it somebody will syndicate
it to the the website somebody will do
the email campaign using my content i
don't really have to worry about the
backend but i think moving forward it's
nice
and essential
to actually have that back-end
technology so you can connect the dots
understand how a piece of content that
you created and other people will use it
and how the audience can access it so
you are totally right it's kind of dull
but i think it's super important to
understand the back end
you need to be able to look
at the html
and then just not be intimidated or you
shouldn't be you shouldn't freak out now
that doesn't mean that you need to be
able to do it from scratch or that you
need to be able to fix issues but
grasping the fundamentals means when you
look at it you kind of know
what's going on you know almost like a
map you know when you look at a map you
kind of have a high level understanding
of okay here's the mountains here's the
main city and here's the main cross
streets of where i'm going but you don't
need to be an expert on the geography or
the topography of the country that
you're going to is that grasp of the
fundamentals of tech and it will really
take us far
and just to know enough to be dangerous
trying to find that balance no one have
to be dangerous yeah
another question i would like to ask you
for a long time the marketing automation
platform and tools and they tend to
focus on scaling
and which is more standardization
and you brought a very good point in
terms of leveraging the data unification
and cdp and add additional data or the
data enrichment so you can create a
sense of personalized outreach to your
customers
so with that being said that requires a
lot of work for marketing operations and
also the campaign managers do you have
any suggestions or insight in terms of
how to balance you know that sense of
the delicate balance of standardization
and personalization because we are not
like
there
in terms of like we can personalize like
every single outreach to every single
individual
and we can do it probably at a segment
level but that's still a lot of work do
you have any insight in terms of how to
balance that and so we don't kill like
all campaign managers and marketing
operations people i think deciding on
which segments are the most important
and you feel are going to be the most
effective to personalize and to
prioritize you know we'll know the
basics of industry and geography and
location but there's also things like
job role and job title it can go as far
as to interests and intent understanding
where you can make the most impact is
the is the first part of it you are
basically saying that with all the data
that's readily available for you you
need to identify or prioritize in terms
of a specific segment you want to focus
one area that's often missed is job role
and job function what do you do in your
day-to-day and then what's your role
which is typically a a collection of job
titles and personalizing content and
marketing specifically for those people
to help them do their jobs better i
think that that's that's often missed
when we normally think about
personalization we think about maybe
industry verticals we do it by verticals
yes
verticals and then maybe if they're
c-suite executive or if they're you know
a practitioner or something like that we
stop there but there's so many more
others
that could even be more more valuable
you know if every marketer slices up
their audience into industries you end
up with marketing that looks very much
the same i think that that's that's one
of the challenges
and when you look at it especially in
b2b by helping them do their job better
and focusing on things like job role and
job function
you end up being a source of valuable
information i think so sort of like a
partner or subject matter expert
versus someone who's just kind of
customizing your your banners and your
landing pages based on what industry so
like if it's a medical industry then you
have like a picture of a doctor we can
go much farther than that but that's
that's going to be individual to the
company that you're working for and and
really trying to figure out you know
what makes sense to customize and what
doesn't and then
this is the part where you know
us marketing automation fans really come
into play it's really comes down to the
technology that you have because with
marketing automation it's much easier to
personalize at scale once you've defined
those parameters of your personalization
like the easy one
dynamically changing an email based on
their job role or or changing a landing
page and personalizing a web page based
on who's coming to visit that's i think
is where marketing automation really
shines and if you have the right
platform it's it's not very difficult to
do the only challenge i can marketing
managers sometimes they also take on the
had of say creating content so they have
a role of a content marketer
and for smaller companies
vp of marketing probably also do demand
jan they uh she's probably doing social
media outreach and they have a multiple
roles so what is your thought in terms
of like that specific person have
multiple job functions and the job roles
how do we deal with the personalization
from that and or perspective i have
both a sort of high level strategic way
to address that question and then like a
technical way to address the question i
want to hear both this is fantastic
because i'm i puzzle by that you know
what i'm saying i 100 agree your point
of view daryl that if we do a
personalization we take it from vertical
level
next level down is by job functions by
job roles i can see that happening i can
also see that is feasible but what if
you know a person has multiple roles how
do we deal with that issue when you
think about
the content and the message behind your
product and a really
clear
sort of vision of how
you're going to solve the customer's
problem a lot of the
nuances don't become as important as
that because i think what most what what
happens very often is you start with a
very
unclear message and unclear solution and
clear messagings yes
and it doesn't matter how much you
personalize that it still doesn't hit
home so i think that that's where i
think actually i think it's kind of
starts at the top there before it goes
down
given that you have nailed that and you
are creating content that your audience
loves and that they're drawn to and that
they're expecting then i think the
personalization um really makes sense
that's my strategic way to answer that
question the technical way that i think
to do it is you
can just bring on
technical experts as freelancers or
contractors that the new marketing team
is a hybrid team
you've got the rise of things like
fractional cmos
and
agencies and people that just want
they're subject matter experts but they
don't want the normal nine-to-five job
and by partnering with those specialists
i think that you can go a long way
allowing you to focus on some of the
more key things that you really need to
nail down and then that frees up your
time for the more technical aspects of
marketing that's how i would do it
it doesn't matter who you talk to that's
just assume that person has a multiple
but obviously they are interested in
your product and your product will solve
some of their challenges
and but your recommendation is make your
messaging or your talking point like so
clear that it doesn't matter what kind
of
i guess job functions or what kind of
hat that person is wearing that he's
going to get it
and i like that recommendation a lot
that comes back to you know you have a
very solid
messaging framework and you actually
explain that your product with sensitive
clarity that target audience can
understand
so that's actually a great suggestion i
like that a lot because i was thinking
of that question i was like how would i
answer that
yeah i'm a fan for example of like
mailchimp if you go to their site and
you look at their marketing it's not
that personalized but it's very simple
and it's very clear they're amazingly
successful people love them it's very
underrated how how much you can
accomplish by speaking very simply to
the the problem that you solve for the
customer and making it clear there's one
more things i want to talk about
this is probably extension of a
marketing automation
which is really looking to predictive
analytics
and also the intent based marketing and
you touch a little bit in terms of
leveraging additional data that you can
gather
it doesn't matter is the internal data
or the third party data
using a data enrichment so you can
understand your customers so much better
and also understand you know are they
really interested in buying or exploring
your product at this time
and a lot of a startup that actually are
developing tools like this
and they are using artificial
intelligence and algorithms to help you
to kind of identify
or help reveal the customer's intention
to buy especially at the moment
are you working on that at aws
at this point or any thought that you
can share with us the idea of predictive
analytics
and intent data well let's start with
predictive analytics which is what makes
a customer successful or what makes a
good buyer for your company and what are
the characteristics and the attributes
and the behaviors that they do
that sort of paint the picture of this
ideal buyer and then you take that
picture and then you try to match them
across industries and across
geographies to try to find more that are
like them or or match it at it at some
at some level it's a look-alike type of
approach yeah look kind of like a
look-alike and you can apply that to you
know people within your database and
people outside that idea is fantastic
and we do do it at aws what we're
fortunate to have is a high volume of
customers yes you have such a big data
sample size and that helps tremendously
so a lot of it will just be creating our
own data models and pattern recognitions
for hey you know what products are they
using would they
are they likely to benefit from adjacent
products or complementary products what
type of messaging makes sense what are
they doing on our platforms that give us
an indicator of who they are and that is
so valuable and then that can help
number one adjust how you speak to
customers and then also the the tactical
of
where and how i think that that's so
powerful when you think about
startups or scale-ups or mid-size
companies where you don't have that data
set then you actually have to look
outside of your own database and your
own proprietary database and that's
where things like intent data
where you're actually buying data in
some in some fashion now it doesn't
happen to mean contact data doesn't mean
that you're actually purchasing people's
email addresses you can look at the
pattern and also the exact names yeah
yeah patterns and audiences and you know
it could be anonymous could be not um
and that's where that value comes in so
i think i think it depends on the stage
at which you're in one thing i will
mention when you when you are looking at
intent and when you are looking at
external third parties that are sort of
serving this up to you you have to look
at their core competencies you know if
you're if you're looking at a technical
audience do they excel in in those areas
do they have data on the technical
audience that you want or are you
selling to marketers this is a
completely different audience you know
marketers you probably want to invest
into something completely different
because we're we're different we're
interested
i don't want to say like we're like
interesting people but like we like
different things
we are really sophisticated
[Laughter]
we know when people try to market to us
we're like you know why we know that
trick we've done that before exactly
there are a couple things and i kind of
want to unpack based on what you just
said number one is if you want to do any
kind of predictive analytics or
intent based type of marketing
the sample size matter so it just
happened like within amazon you you have
a huge amount of sample sizes that you
can do a lot of slice and dice of
information
but for a lot of companies that don't
have that you are totally right they
have to purchase a third-party data in
to some extent
another thing i would like to add on top
of it is the quality of data because you
purchase is a third-party data how
accurate is that data that's something
you have to kind of take into account as
well i have several colleagues that
really try different platforms what they
have come to realize based on their
understanding of the customers and they
look at the data from the third-party
platform and
they can basically say you know what
some of data is not accurate
or the outcome
of the platform's recommendation is not
very much aligned with what they have in
mind now that's a subject to debate in
terms of like
do we understand our audience well
enough let's assume
my colleagues are very seasoned
professional and has been dealing with
i.t professions for 20 years they know
what they are doing
then they look at some of their
recommendations it was like i'm not sure
that's right not just the size of the
data matters and also the quality of
data and you somehow have to look into
it not mentioning about you know what
kind of model that they use to actually
run the recommendation and analysis i
agree i will have to say though just
based on my anecdotal experience
i think most companies are just
scratching the surface of what they can
do with their own first party data
we are very much at the infancy of it
yeah we are just starting but again this
part is interesting and gold at the same
time
it's interesting because you are doing
something totally different but it's
very boring just because you deal with
data i actually have a personal question
i would like to ask you i know that all
of us most of us have done some sort of
soul-searching in the past two years
during pandemic
this whole time of staying at home
and made people realize they can work
pretty much anywhere so which is in
gender what we call this great
resignation era
and it also makes us prioritize our
lives differently and i remember say
something about reading a book design
your life
so can you tell us a little bit about
that book and how did that change your
priority yeah i remember because i was
in an interesting place i had asked you
for a mentoring session which you
obliged which is so nice of you of
course because you're a nice person
and i told you don't worry about it you
don't need it i think the ultimate
question and what many are feeling now
should i change careers should i change
jobs should i make some changes because
i'm going to miss out on something or
that if i want to accelerate my career
faster
which is you know it's it's good i think
drive is good i think it's great to to
be ambitious and to have career goals
that one thing that i learned
especially in this past year and from
that book
is to think about
what a change in your career would mean
to you
what would be different and why would it
be better than what you have now
and how would your opportunities change
and i think that that's a very tough
question
for many people oh that's a very very
tough question to even
answer i cannot even answer that
question now like what let me think
about it for another two years no i'm
kidding keep going
so for example if the change that you
want to make is just going to be more
money and a higher title i mean what
does that really mean besides the sort
of external
validation and the material things
material things that you can buy yeah
but if the change represents a broader
scope of responsibility
learning a new industry or working with
really smart people that i think is a
more
foundational tangible change and benefit
i think is a really important one so
that that's one thing to consider about
why you want to make the change honestly
look at your day-to-day and kind of what
makes up a really great day and that's
the essence i think of the design your
design your life and design your
workbook and what what actually changes
in a workday because if you think about
it when you change jobs not too much
changes you know what i mean you've got
your same email inbox you still attend
meetings and you you know still come up
with marketing campaigns right and in my
case we still manage technology
so that doesn't change much
for me i think of it as you know what
problems do i like to to solve
what sort of
makes up the work that i'm doing and
what opportunities do i have to make
that work better after reading that book
i
sort of took a look at my own role
and started to try to make some small
changes to make them better and to focus
on things so for example one of the
things that i i started to do
was
really improve the way that we that my
team does internal communication out to
the broader marketing organization
internal stakeholders yeah
yeah internal stakeholders you know how
can we make that
more interesting and compelling and
almost do internal marketing campaigns
to not only
inform and almost entertain our internal
stakeholders but to educate them and to
sort of win them to sort of the
initiatives that we're doing um and i
think that that's been so fun for me and
something that i was missing but i was
able to to build within my own role and
at the same time take some of the lesser
fun aspects of my job and try to
minimize them somehow outsource it
outsource it
[Laughter]
outsource it outsource it or just carve
out you know small times of the week
where you just take care of them and get
them out of the way
and i found that a lot of the enjoyment
that i was looking for you can actually
create within your own role and i think
that's a really interesting concept to
ponder i love your suggestion rather
than making a big big change sometimes
you kind of look inward and also look at
your existing job and then make an
effort to make some little changes like
you suggested
and then find a joy
within doing that of course we have to
attend meeting we have to go to work we
cannot just be a slacker and then go to
starbucks and have a cup of coffee and
sit there and uh and write a novel
whatever yes that probably might be my
dream job but a lot of time we have a
job to do by doing that job what can you
do to actually make that day a little
better you're all right it's something
for my audience to ponder and for myself
as well so thank you yeah
if i had to say one one last thing about
it i think that this exercise takes a
tremendous amount of self-reflection and
soul-searching
and my advice would be to
just talk to a partner a friend about it
a therapist if you have one and just
answer those questions like what would i
like about a new job what do i like
about the job that i'm doing how can i
do more of the things that i really
enjoy doing and structure my day in a
way that that really makes sense and
then when you i think when you voice
those things it becomes more clear a lot
of times kind of stuck in your head yeah
as to the feelings that you're having
about work um and then kind of
saying them or writing them down can be
very clarifying
now that restrictions are easing what is
your first
travel destination
cancun
coming up in july
it is for a wedding if you've been to
cancun you know the the all-inclusive
resorts are the way to go it takes away
the stress i love it love it yeah you
know you can have a cocktail in your
room at any time
they'll just bring it so that's that's
where i'm going and highly recommend how
can our audience find you linkedin is my
favorite i'm daryl alfonso on linkedin
follow me there connect with me there by
the way if you are listening to this
episode definitely follow daryl on
linkedin let me tell you why i love love
love his linkedin posts and every single
post is very unique it's like telling a
story or telling a joke you know like
the big list of things not to do in
marketing operations and the way that
you write the things like not to do is
always funny like do not let people have
access to your mouth tag be choosy about
your admins and then the other one is do
not curate your own email campaigns
always use a second set of eyes and then
he listed like 20 things like not to do
and they are all funny and but yet so
true
and i loved it so you obviously have
spent a lot of time and
you you give a lot of thought to
structure your post is that true
i almost think of it like my own
personal like variety show or like a
late night show where sometimes it's
funny sometimes it's personal sometimes
it's educational if you are interested
just to find out like ins and outs of
marketing automation
and also the harsh reality of it check
out daryl's linkedin posts you'll love
it thank you so much for coming to my
show daryl and then come back again it's
always fun talking to you
thanks for having me pam it was fun
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]